### fbot's factoids

Please note that some of them are here for historical purposes and no
longer work or they have ancient informations.\
Check [how he
works](http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=How_to_work_the_bots).

**0.1.14**\
That version is old and unmaintained. We strongly suggest to upgrade.
Please get the version from the topic. I repeat: 0.1.14 is UNMAINTAINED
!

**0114**\
That version is old and unmaintained. We strongly suggest to upgrade.
Please get the version from the topic. I repeat: 0.1.14 is UNMAINTAINED
!

**1.0**\
out now, sure its an rc right now but its out
<http://old.fluxbox.org/version-0.9.php>

**353**\
Ahhh the Second-system effect..

**42**\
well .. do you know the question to this answer?

**[\#fluxbox-dev]**\
this channel? meant to be a platform to communicate between the
fluxbox-devs .. you may join, but the preferable channel to ask
questions is \#fluxbox.

**A window manager**\
the software that controls the placement and appearance of application

**accessx**\
fluxbox itself doesnt provide any accessibilty features for people who
uses nonstandard inputdevices. but one coulde use accessx, its available
under:
[<http://www.rehab.uiuc.edu/accessx/>](http://replay.web.archive.org/20070703015842/http://www.disability.uiuc.edu/accessx/).

**ad**\
state your question including a good description of the problem, and
your fluxbox -version, and the operating system (distro). Wait until
someone answers, dont ask to ask or ask unspecific general questions
just to hear a sound ... :)

**adesklets**\
adesklets is a gdesklets replacement, only imlib2-dependant :
<http://adesklets.sf.net>

**aiglx**\
read: <http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/RenderingProject/aiglx>

**ak-configs**\
for some great configs for everything from xorg to zsh, and all kinds of
fluxbox configs check out <http://darkshed.net/> and look at ak|ras
files

**akapps**\
to see ak|ra's appsfile surf to
<http://darkshed.net/files/rcs/fluxbox/apps>

**akfiles**\
check out <http://darkshed.net/files/rcs/fluxbox/> for akira's files.

**akkeys**\
ak|ra's keybindings are available on
<http://darkshed.net/files/rcs/fluxbox/keys>

**ak|ra**\
he's my daddy. he pats me sometimes if i do what he wants me todo :) ..

**aleczapka**\
the webmaster, yes the guy that made the fluxbox site. he also made some
nice styles.

**alive**\
jaja, dont set me under pressure, <who>!!

**alock**\
ak|ra's lightweight screen locker. Check darkshed.net/projects/alock for
more details.

**antialias**\
to check, if your fluxbox is supporting antialias aka truetypefonts:
"fluxbox -info | grep -i xft". if it returns a "-XFT" then your fluxbox
wasnt built with xft/freetype support.

**apocalypse**\
I certainly hope there are some people alive. Unless I missed the
apocalypse

**are you drunk**\
not drunk enough!!

**around**\
use /whois nickname to find out how long he has been idling. btw, just
ask. otherwise the other guy has to wait for your question.

**arrows**\
To disable the "\< \>" arrows in the toolbar edit \~/.fluxbox/init and
remove from "session.screen0.toolbar.tools:" what you don't want
(prevworkspace,nextworkspace,prevwindow,nextwindow)

**artwiz**\
The artwiz fonts homepage, with all the latest info, can be found at
<http://artwizaleczapka.sourceforge.net>. For full iso-8859-1 charset
support, try <http://artwiz-latin1.sf.net>

**asenchi**\
the guy with the masterplan.

**ask**\
just ask your question, dont ask to ask or check this page
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/How_to_get_help_in_irc>

**aterm**\
aterm is most peoples favourite term. install the package from your
distro. here is a nice aterm config-file:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Xdefaults_setup>

**autogen**\
the script you have to run if you want to build fluxbox from cvs. You
need automake, autoconf and libtool for this.

**autogrouping**\
to autogroup apps in fluxbox use the \~/.fluxbox/groups file

**awake**\
yes, i am here\<=or=\><reply> most of the time, <who>\<=or=\><reply> of
course, i am here to serve you\<=or=\>ow, i had a lousy night ... too
much beer .. and then the fine looking applegirl

**awaynick**\
If you want to know why it's not a good idea to make your nick
indicating you're away, then please read this here:
<http://sackheads.org/~bnaylor/spew/away_msgs.html>

**apps**\
read all about the mystic \`apps' file in the fluxbox manpage, section
"APPLICATIONS SETTINGS" or at
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_edit_the_apps_file> .
Basically, it allows you to define the state of applications when they
are started and make them automatically group using regular expression
matching

**background**\
rootCommand was removed from styles in version 0.9.15; you should now
use the "background" option, which is explained at
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_set_the_background>

**backgroundbuddy**\
the autmatic-wallpaper-rotation daemon, written in perl. it allows one
to have different wallpapers on each workspace. check out:
<http://fluxspace.sourceforge.net>

**backgrounds**\
ask me for 'wallpapers'

**ban**\
<action> sets mode +b <who>!\*@\*

**bar**\
where tenner spends most of his time

**bash**\
There is a bug in bash which confuses resizing the window: put \`\`shopt
-s checkwinsize'' in your .bash\_profile

**bb4win**\
a windows version of blackbox (the window manager that fluxbox based on)
- it may be a good (and hassle free - unlike cygwin) alternative for you
windows users. Check www.bb4win.org for details.

**bbconf**\
its a config-editor and style-handler, mostly developed for blackbox,
could be used for doing some stuff for fluxbox too, check out under
<http://bbconf.sourceforge.net/>

**bblaunch**\
bblaunch is able to run applications with manipulated attribs. its
available at: <http://blackboxwm.sourceforge.net/> . eg: bblaunch -d
none aumix -\> starts aumix without decoration

**bbpager**\
you most likely want to make a symlink from .fluxbox/init to .blackboxrc

**beer**\
yum yum.

**beli**\
the celtic god of lightning and healing and also provides some unoffical
slackware packages (see slackware)

**beryl**\
compiz/beryl are window managers, and so is fluxbox, so you can't use
them together. For more about why, see
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Faqs#Can_I_use_fluxbox_or_parts_of_it_with_XGL.2FCompiz.2FBeryl.3F>

**bfh**\
a bfh is your best tool, its known as a big fuggin hammer

**bg wiki**\
having trouble with setting the background or getting transparency to
work? check this out:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_set_the_background>

**bionik**\
a great stylist, he also uploads his themes to <http://www.fluxmod.org>

**bird**\
fried please

**blackbox**\
what differs fluxbox from blackbox is that it just adds a bunch of
useless shit

**blackb|rd**\
the former docs-maintainer, bow to his knowledge

**blame**\
Its all your fault. Dont try to blame me or fluxbox. We all know its
pebkac!!

**blenk**\
you want to talk to Meltir... he's the blenkmaster ;-)

**blub**\
is/dudz

**bobbens**\
Ol' MacBobbens had a renderfarm...EE-II-EE-II-OOH!

**bold**\
to use bold fonts, use lucidasans-10:bold for example

**boogeymen**\
yes, i ll save you from the boogeymen, my child. lay your head down and
sleep well.

**borderless**\
to get rid of borders, titlebars, etc., add an entry to \~/.fluxbox/apps
-- see man fluxbox-apps (section SETTINGS) or
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Borderless_windows>

**bot**\
Im not a bot, Im a real boy

**botbeer**\
yum yum

**botsnack**\
I pretend to work, and they pretend to pay me.

**botsnack**\
cheers!

**bsetbg**\
bsetbg sucks, get fbsetbg. Read all about it here
[<http://www.xs4all.nl/~hanb/software/fbsetbg/fbsetbg.html>](http://replay.web.archive.org/20071223002500/http://www.xs4all.nl/~hanb/software/fbsetbg/fbsetbg.html)

**bsetroot**\
a little program to set simple patterns and solid colors for
backgrounds. Ideal for old machines.

**bugs**\
Coming to \#fluxbox and informing a developer is one way, another, and
possibly the best way is to go to
<http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=35398&atid=413960> so that
there is a public record of the bug.

**bugreport**\
bugreports are welcome, but please try to make them informative:
<http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/web/library/wa-cranky45/index.html>

**changelog**\
changelog is either surf to <http://old.fluxbox.org/changelog.php> or to
<http://tinyurl.com/mrkgy>

**chbg**\
desktop background manager/changer/screensave .. forget about the
frontend, just install it to set wallpapers with fbsetbg. it has only
one problem: chbg doesn't return non-zero on error. better use feh or
esetroot.

**chitchat**\
Your conversation is perfect for \#fluxbox-chitchat like our fine /topic
suggests. Please move there for off topic discussion like "which distro
is the best" "whats your fav window manager" etc. etc... or talking
about networking issues and network manager, whats the best laptop, hows
the weather up there...

**ciaranm**\
ciaranm is evil !! \>:| and the gentoo-dev responsible for the
fluxbox-ebuilds

**cigarettes**\
smoking is forbidden in \#fluxbox

**coffee**\
do you want some, <who>?\<=or=\><reply> drink tea, its healthier, <who>!

**color**\
<http://www.colorschemer.com/online.html>

**color codes**\
for supported human-readable color codes, check
/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb.txt

**compiz**\
compiz and fluxbox are both window managers, and X only allows one
window manager at any time, so they cannot be used together. For more
information, see
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Faqs#Can_I_use_fluxbox_or_parts_of_it_with_XGL.2FCompiz.2FBeryl.3F>

**composite**\
the new xorg6.8 supports eyecandy, uberfancy composite extension ..
which is marked as experimental. so dont complain if it breaks some
things (eg slit, layers, dockapps ..). disable it, problems should
disappear. ignore this advice ... well, now you are on your own. :)

**conky**\
Conky is an advanced, highly configurable system monitor for X
<http://conky.sf.net>

**coredump**\
To learn how to setup fluxbox to provide a core dump please visit
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_coredump>

**cvs**\
we are using subversion now for versioncontrol. check svn.

**cvsdevel**\
checkout: echo -n "username: "; read username; cvs -qz3 -d
:ext:\${username}@cvs.fluxbox.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/fluxbox co
fluxbox && cd fluxbox && ./autogen.sh

**cvsfix**\
sf.net CVS changed. Change any references from
cvs.fluxbox.sourceforge.net to cvs.sourceforge.net

**cvsweb**\
[<http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/fluxbox/fluxbox/>](http://replay.web.archive.org/20041028193239/http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/fluxbox/fluxbox/)

**cycle**\
on 0.1.14 alt-tab cycles through all windows. on 0.9.x it cycles in the
last used order.

**cygwin**\
to compile fluxbox on cygwin go here:
<http://www.ilstu.edu/~abturet/flux.html>

**dashes**\
put [nop] (---) in the menu :\>

**deb-menu**\
If you are running debian or ubuntu and don't have a menu after
installing, run \`sudo update-menus'. If that still doesn't work, remove
your \~/.fluxbox/menu and restart fluxbox.

**debian**\
look for \>ubuntu\<

**debug**\
check <http://wiki.fluxbox.org/index.php/Coredump>

**deco**\
to get decorationless windows add this line to your \~/.fluxbox/keys:
"mod1 t :toggledecor", reload the config and then press alt-t. for more
permanent ways, see ,borderless

**decomask**\
the (strange) looking number for deco in the apps-file is a binary mask,
bits are for: titlebar, handle, border, iconify, minimise, close, menu,
sticky, shade, tab, enabled. use a good calculator to enter a binary
mask and get a hex-number which represents the state on wants.

**decor**\
to get decorationless windows add this line to your \~/.fluxbox/keys:
"mod1 t :toggledecor", reload the config and then press alt-t. for more
permanent ways, see ,borderless or
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Borderless_windows>

**devel**\
The latest fluxbox development release is 0.9.14 (the one you should
get!)

**devel-archive**\
available at
<http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum=fluxbox-devel>

**developers**\
The developers are mainly fluxgen, Rathnor, ak|ra and \_markt getting
incredible support from Han (script-kungfoo), and innumerable other
geeks :) all over the world.

**devfaq**\
read faqs to devel-version of fluxbox here:
<http://old.fluxbox.org/docs/en/faq-dev.php>

**devs**\
check out
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Faqs#Who_are_the_developers>

**die**\
<who> i am not dead, <who>!

**dinet**\
strange

**distro**\
please state the information about your distro/os. makes it a lot easier
to give proper recommendations.

**dmi**\
Don't mention it.

**doc**\
read the /topic. you should have when you came in to \#fluxbox :)

**dockapps**\
to find dockapps for fluxbox, check out
<http://dockapps.windowmaker.org/> for a bunch of them

**docs**\
read the /topic. you should have when you came in to \#fluxbox :)

**documentation**\
ask me about 'docs'

**doesnt work**\
Look buddy, doesn't work is a strong statement. Does it sit on the couch
all day? Does it want more money? Is it on IRC all the time? Be
specific! Examples of what doesn't work (or the URL) tend to help too,
or pastebin the config if that's the problem

**dotfiles**\
<http://old.fluxbox.org/download/dotfiles> |
<http://web.archive.org/web/http://www.xs4all.nl/~hanb/configs/> |
<http://darkshed.net/files/rcs/> | <http://www.dotfiles.com>

**e0x**\
a hacker !

**e107**\
what makes fluxmod.dk tick :) ... you might want to check out e107.org
for details

**english**\
In \#fluxbox we speak english, if you need support in another language
please ask chanserve for a list of fluxbox rooms and join the one thats
right for you. \#fluxbox-es, \#fluxbox-de etc etc

**enter**\
try to hit enter when you finish typing your question. When you hit
enter a dozen times before you have finished asking your question it
makes it hard to follow.

**epilogue**\
le roi des patates!

**epplets**\
the dockapps from enlightenment, another windowmanager.

**errr**\
errr is lazy, dont trust him cause he will steal your wallet when you
are not looking

**esetroot**\
Esetroot comes with Eterm. It sets backgrounds in a way that is
compatible with transparency

**et**\
yeah, well, the guys have too much time and so they spent / waste it
with playing enemy-territory sometimes. at least fluxgen and ak|ra do.
ask me about \*etservers\*.

**eterm**\
eterm is a great term as well, though a bit harder to tame. here is an
example of how to do it: [
<http://replay.web.archive.org/20060506060200/http://www.xs4all.nl/~hanb/configs/Eterm.cfg>
<http://www.xs4all.nl/~hanb/configs/Eterm.cfg>]

**etservers**\
favourite etservers atm: 217.160.210.184:28000 | 80.239.137.49:27961 |
217.172.182.126:27960

**euro**\
Online Money converter: <http://www.xe.com/ucc/>

**evil**\
that's me \>}:D

**ewmh**\
EWMH stands for Extended Window Manager Hints. It is a specification
above the ICCCM for interacting with window managers. Find it at
<http://standards.freedesktop.org/wm-spec/latest/>

**experimental**\
Have a look at <http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Experimental> for
experimental patches and extensions to fluxbox.

**eyecandy?**\
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_add_eye_candy>

**faq**\
frequently asked questions are at:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Faqs>

**faqdev**\
read faqs to dev-version of fluxbox here:
<http://old.fluxbox.org/docs/en/faq-dev.php>

**faqs**\
frequently asked questions are at:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Faqs>

**favourite color**\
ermm .. i like blue alot, kinda deep blue ... \*hint\*

**fbdesk**\
fbdesk plops icons on your desktop, url is
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Fbdesk>

**fbgm**\
a script to generate menu-files, you can always download the latest
version here:
<http://git.fluxbox.org/fluxbox.git/tree/util/fluxbox-generate_menu.in>
; install -m755 fluxbox-generate\_menu.in
/usr/local/bin/fluxbox-generate\_menu

**fbot**\
that's me :)

**fbpager**\
Get fbpager from <http://old.fluxbox.org/fbpager/>

**fbprocmenu**\
fbprocmenu lets view and manipulate running processes from your fluxbox
menu : <http://www.gentoo-wiki.info/Fluxbox#fbprocmenu>

**fbrun**\
a tiny window to launch apps from. You may want something like this in
your key file (e.g. Ctrl-Alt-R = "Run"): Mod1 Control R :ExecCommand
fbrun

**fbsetbg**\
a wrapperscript that helps setting the background. It comes with
fluxbox. Read the wiki for more information:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_set_the_background> .

**fbsetbg error**\
the lastwallpaper format for fbsetbg has just been updated. please
remove .fluxbox/lastwallpaper and try again.

**fedora**\
to install the latest rpm for fedora first try "yum install fluxbox" you
might also try looking at:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Packages> for fluxbox svn
builds packaged by our own errr

**feh**\
another wallpapersetter with transparency-compatibilty for fluxbox, get
it at <http://www.linuxbrit.co.uk/feh/>

**ffs**\
go funking funk a smurf

**files**\
For an overview about the \~/.fluxbox/ structure look at
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Configuration_files>

**firefox**\
some users seem to have HUGE FONTS with firefox inside fluxbox. thats
not a fluxbox-problem-bug-whatever-you-call-it. try this hint:
<http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/history/213386>

**flood**\
to show us some tracebacks, longer parts of text or whatever could be
called "flood" .. do us a favour and go to <http://fluxbox.pastebin.ca/>
| <http://paste.pocoo.org/> | <http://ompldr.org/paste> | \#flood

**fluxMenu**\
fluxmenu is a grahical menu editor written in python using pygtk and
glade, wirtten by our own Zan
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_fluxmenu>

**fluxbox**\
a powerful but slim and fast window-manager based on the original
blackbox. check the /topic for all the latest news.

**fluxbox in freebsd**\
even the 0.9.4 release is in the freebsd portage tree -\>
/usr/ports/x11-wm/fluxbox-devel.

**fluxbox on freebsd**\
the stable fluxbox version (0.1.14) lays in the ports directory
/usr/ports/x11-wm/fluxbox, the development version (currently 0.9.8)
lays in the directory /usr/ports/x11-wm/fluxbox-devel of the ports-tree.

**fluxbox-generate\_menu**\
a script to generate menu-files, you can always download the latest
version here:
<http://git.fluxbox.org/fluxbox.git/tree/util/fluxbox-generate_menu.in>
; install -m755 fluxbox-generate\_menu.in
/usr/local/bin/fluxbox-generate\_menu

**fluxconf**\
a third party application that was created to ease configuration of
fluxbox, but in reality misconfigures the keys file, and is known to
devour the apps and menu file, as well as change permissions on init -
please don't use it.

**fluxgen**\
fluxgen is the scandinaviac guy who did the fluxbox-crime :) dont
disturb him, he's hacking.

**fluxjob**\
a synonym for \`\`give food''

**fluxmod**\
The fluxmod project website: <http://www.fluxmod.org/> - the Fluxbox
stylerz home. There is styles and a small community being built there as
we speak. This is not the orignal one run by ikaro. Its gone and has
been for years, to get the styles that were on his site check a gentoo
mirror like
<http://mirror.usu.edu/mirrors/gentoo/distfiles/fluxbox-styles-fluxmod-20050128.tar.bz2>

**fluxspace**\
fluxspace enhances fluxbox with some new desktopmanagment capabilities,
could be found <http://fluxspace.sourceforge.net>

**fluxter**\
a pager, available at <http://www.isomedia.com/homes/stevencooper>. but
be aware, <who>, it has some memoryleak issues which will eat up your
memory over the time.

**fm**\
<http://www.freshmeat.net>

**focushidden**\
to remove a program from the alt-tab list, you will need to use
[FocusHidden] {yes} in the apps file; learn more about the apps file at
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_edit_the_apps_file> .

**font**\
To find out how to change font in your style see
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Change_font> , if you have
problems installing fonts or getting them to work, you should read
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Install_fonts> ,
<http://xfree.org/4.8.0/fonts2.html> ,
<https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Font_Configuration>

**foo**\
foo is ba

**freebsd**\
even the 0.9.4 release is in the freebsd ports tree -\>
/usr/ports/x11-wm/fluxbox-devel.

**excuse**\
Fatal error right in front of screen

**gap**\
gap is something you want to add between your screen and your windows?
Trying to keep some spot free on your screen to raise your rootmenu or
having information alwyas in sight? Maybe
<http://tenr.de/howto/space_dapp/space_dapp.html> might offer you some
solution.

**gcolor**\
gcolor is a simple color selector with a GTk2 interface, get it here
<http://gcolor2.sourceforge.net/>

**gday**\
g'day, mate. How's it goin

**gdesklets**\
a nice little desktop app that allows you to configure various widgets.
go here: <http://gdesklets.gnomedesktop.org>

**gdm**\
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Howto_add_fluxbox_to_gdm>

**gentoo**\
gentoo is genshmoo or gentoops

**german**\
purest evil

**giblet**\
daddy!

**git**\
the latest fluxbox source can be obtained by running \`git clone
<git://git.fluxbox.org/fluxbox.git>'; to compile, run \`cd fluxbox;
./autogen.sh; ./configure && make install'; to update, run \`git pull'

**gkrellm**\
a system monitor app that fits nicely in the slit. to download go to
<http://members.dslextreme.com/users/billw/gkrellm/gkrellm.html> for
themes go to <http://www.muhri.net/gkrellm>

**gn8**\
good night <who>, sleep well

**gnite**\
gnite <who>, sleep well

**gnome**\
don't compare fluxbox to gnome or kde; they serve completely different
purposes

**google**\
a nice search engine, try using it sometime :)

**gravity**\
gravity is another way to call edge snapping. See 'snapping' for more
information on how to set it.

**groups**\
don't use groups; it's deprecated, likely to be removed whenever the
devs feel like it, and is technically inferior to the apps file in every
way

**grub**\
yum yum

**gtfo**\
get the funk on

**gtk**\
to change your gtk theme, see
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Using_gtk_themes>

**hacker**\
yes, yes i am.

**han**\
he changes his backgrounds as often as the day has hours\<=or=\><reply>
is the master of fbsetbg and all other evil scripts\<=or=\><reply> han
has some difficulties to enter the ' so i \_had\_ to learn the , and the
! too .. damn him.

**hankeys**\
short for handkerchiefs

**hard**\
fluxbox is \*hard\* guys, lets just go shopping instead!!

**hardware**\
fluxbox is a window manager; it does not control your monitor, mouse,
keyboard layout, video driver, or anything else that isn't directly
related to drawing decorations around windows; see \#xorg for info on
these topics

**hidden**\
to hide apps from showing up in the toolbar you need to run at least
fluxbox 0.9.9 and use [IconHidden] {yes} in the apps-file.

**hide**\
to hide apps from showing up in the toolbar you need to run at least
fluxbox 0.9.9 and use [IconHidden] {yes} in the apps-file.

**hnaz**\
a pure ansi-NULL

**how are you**\
My logic and cognitive functions are normal.

**how long until ...**\
that [....] long ! :) dont ask!

**how to ask**\
<http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html#intro>

**how to group apps**\
read the docs carefully <who> short version: xprop for wm\_name and
group them together in the apps file \~/.fluxbox/apps see:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_edit_the_apps_file#Grouping_apps_via_the_apps_file>
for more info

**how to install fonts**\
if you have problems installing fonts or getting them to work, you
should read the wiki at
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Install_fonts> and the docs
page at <http://xfree.org/4.8.0/fonts2.html>

**how to install styles**\
see <http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Styles>

**how to make styles**\
go read tenner's style howto at
<http://tenr.de/howto/style_fluxbox/style_fluxbox.html> or read the man
page at 'man fluxbox-style'

**how to make themes**\
read 'man fluxbox-style' and take one of the default-themes to learn and
see, how things are setup. play a bit around. thats all the magic.

**how to patch**\
take a looooong look at <http://www.cpqlinux.com/patch.html> to learn
howto patch :)

**how to report a bug**\
read this, young bughunter:
<http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html>

**how to screenshot**\
howto make screenshots is explained on
<http://www.saragossa.net/linux-tips/pages.php?subj=Capturing+Screen+Shots>

**how to set window-properties**\
one could set windowproperties by 3 different ways: 1. define at
startup, eg xterm -geometry 10x50 2. using the
application-setting-mechanism of fluxbox, read the manpage, chapter
applications settings for more information. 3. setting it after creation
by using "xwit", available at
<ftp://ftp.x.org/contrib/utilities/xwit-3.4.tar.gz> .

**how to set windowproperties**\
one could set windowproperties by 3 different ways: 1. define at
startup, eg xterm -geometry 10x50 2. using the
application-setting-mechanism of fluxbox, read the manpage, chapter
applications settings for more information. 3. setting it after creation
by using "xwit", available at
<ftp://ftp.x.org/contrib/utilities/xwit-3.4.tar.gz> .

**howto**\
check <http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Category:Howtos>

**howto round corners**\
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_rounded_corners>

**human error**\
No human would be that stupid. My best guess is that a cabbage got
access to your computer.

**iconbar**\
To change iconbar settings: config menu -\> toolbar -\> iconbar

**icons**\
icons for fluxbox: <http://wm-icons.sourceforge.net/> |
<http://www.linux.gr/logos/iconstore/> | customize.org and, of course,
google.com

**icons on the desktop**\
If you want icons on your desktop take a look at idesk, Rox-Filer, or
fbdesk

**idesk**\
idesk is an application which drops icons onto your desktop. Check
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Idesk> for a tutorial and
<http://sourceforge.net/projects/idesk/> for more info. maybe that one
too: <http://idesklinker.sourceforge.net/>

**idiot**\
<http://piv.pivpiv.dk/>

**If this**\
your nickname, type /msg NickServ IDENTIFY <password>

**ikaro**\
ikaro was last seen Sat Feb 19 01:13:16 CET 1985 saying "edit the theme
and change the font size"

**imagemagick**\
Imagemagick is a nice image manipulating app. You can get it from here:
<http://www.imagemagick.org/>

**imagepath**\
to let fluxbox search for the right images it uses
session.screen0.imageSearchPath in the init-file. eg: \~/.pixmaps,
/usr/local/share/icons

**imlib2**\
the lib you need to have when you want to use .png .jpg and otheir
formats, inside of fluxbox (in the style or the menu). To get it you
have to recompile fluxbox, and remember to ./configure --enable-imlib2
(or get a package that has it enabled). You can check if you already
have with it \`fluxbox -i\` (if its not there at all, then you need a
newer version of fluxbox).

**import**\
The magic almighty "import" command is part of ImageMagick. To take a
screenshot with it, try 'import -w root screen.jpg'.

**in fluxbox**\
there is nothing in fluxbox -- that's the whole point; you will need to
find those programs yourself, with the help of google

**init**\
\~/.fluxbox/init is the main configuration file, check \`man fluxbox'
section /resource file or
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_edit_the_init_file>

**ipager**\
a nice little pager, with nifty eyecandy. works with a current version
of fluxbox - but be warned: its still under development. details are at:
<http://www.useperl.ru/ipager/index.en.html>

**k3b**\
coolest ripware ever seen

**keybinds**\
to define keybindings allows you to control pretty much of fluxbox.
check the docs about how to do this.

**keys**\
read the wiki at <http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Keyboard_shortcuts>
| if your keybindings aren't working, make sure the line session.keyFile
in your init file points to \~/.fluxbox/keys; if your mouse buttons
aren't working, try moving your keys file and restarting fluxbox

**keysymdb**\
view /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/XKeysymDB for a list of available key-names

**klowner**\
the dude with the wallpapers :) check out
<http://www.dugnet.com/klown/wallpaper/>

**koko**\
that's what aleczapka says when he means it's ok. do you believe him? ;)

**kungfoo**\
<action> screams "tschaaaaakkkka!"

**latest**\
it's not very interesting to report problems in previous dev-releases.
please get a svn-version. ask me about 'svn'.

**layers**\
with layers one can arrange windows in kind of depth-ordered manner.
windows ontop cover the windows below and windows on the lowest level
are always covered from windows from higher layers.

**lb**\
linuxbrit.co.uk

**lfs**\
The linuxfromscratch project, bit by bit instructions to building your
own system at www.linuxfromscratch.org

**license**\
fluxbox is MIT-licensed.

**locales**\
there is a known problem with locales on some machines. they do build
correctly but raise an error on exit. either install the requested
locales or type make a few more times.

**log**\
fluxbox development series now have a very nice feature which makes
debugging a lot easier: replace \`\`exec fluxbox'' with \`\`exec fluxbox
-log \~/.fluxbox/log''.

**logo**\
get fluxbox logos, graphics, banners:
<http://old.fluxbox.org/download/propaganda/>

**logoslit**\
get wmdrawer from <http://people.easter-eggs.org/~valos/wmdrawer/> and
fluxbox logo from <http://old.fluxbox.org/download/propaganda/>

**macrocmd**\
You can bind two or more actions to just one key by using macrocmd like
in this example: <key> :MacroCmd {ExecCommand xterm} {ExecCommand aterm}
{SetResourceValue session.useMod1 false}

**mailinglists**\
fluxbox-devel or
<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/fluxbox-users>

**man**\
fluxbox also comes with man pages; check them at fluxbox, startfluxbox,
fluxbox-keys, fluxbox-apps, fluxbox-style, fluxbox-remote, fbrun,
fbsetbg

**mandrake**\
just check the downloadpage and/or
[<http://www.bugfactory.org/~gav/fluxbox/october-mail.html>](http://replay.web.archive.org/20050213033628/http://bugfactory.org/~gav/fluxbox/october-mail.html)

'''markkeys\
Mark's keybindings are available at
<http://mark.tiefenbruck.org/fluxbox/configs/keys>

**\_markt**\
not to be trusted

**mathias**\
ak|ra (yes really)

**Meltir**\
Meltir is just plain evil. avoiding him is no longer an issue.

**menu**\
To customize the menu and learn to work with it, check out 'man
fluxbox-menu' or this article from the ever-helpful wiki:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_edit_menu>

**mit3z**\
Dude, mit3z is a really poor guy. He has no karma at all.

**mod4**\
the "evil" windoze-key is called mod4. in xev it is displayed as
Super\_L and Super\_R (or Hyper\_[LR]). xmodmap -pm displays some more
info. add: option "xkbmodel" "pc105" to your /etc/X11/XF86Config file,
in the keyboard input device section. or
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_mod4>

**moin**\
if you ever wonder wtf \*moin\* means, visit
<http://moinmo.in/MoinMoinEtymology> ... moin!

**mojn**\
mojn mojn <who>, slept well ? :)

**morning**\
the time for all hackers to go to bed

**mpd**\
a Music Player Daemon, it allows remote access for playing music,
managing playlists, playback over a network, and it ideal if you restart
X often. Read all about it here:
<http://mpd.wikia.com/wiki/Music_Player_Daemon_Wiki>

**mplayer**\
titlebar problems should be fixed in current-cvs, hopefully non-sdl
fullscreen issues too (was bothered by the titlebar in mplayer? put
\`\`vo=sdl'' and \`\`fs=yes'' in your mplayer config. sdl provides real
full-screen mode)

**netsplit**\
\*shrug\*, who cares.

**new features**\
again for everyone: to get new features like transparent menues, rounded
corners of the windows, automatic startup of applications in fluxbox
after fluxbox is started and so on: please please please, these features
are only available in the latest release which means everything above
0.9.10 is good. so go and buy your new brand new fluxbox :)

**new release**\
its done when its done, <who>, as long as there are no newer news, grab
the development release for riding the bleeding edge, getting in there:
<http://fluxbox.org/download/>

**newman**\
for the latest fluxbox documentation please check
<http://fluxbox.org/help/>

**no latest**\
it's not very interesting to report problems in previous dev-releases.
please get <http://fluxbox.org/download/fluxbox-current-cvs.tar.gz> or
even better get svn (ask me about 'svn')

**no middle mousebutton**\
i you are a poor guy, <who>, then you could use the emulated middle
mousebutton, which is left-and-right pressed together

**nodecor**\
to get rid of borders, titlebars or other things add an entry to
(fluxbox-0.9.x-versions) \~/.fluxbox/apps eg ""[app] (aterm)\\n [Deco]
{NONE}\\n[end]" (\\n == newline), or see ,decor for temporary
borderless. you can also refer to the docs or the Changelog or
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Borderless_windows>

**nopaste**\
look for \>paste\<

**nortfm**\
you just asked a question which is not documented in our fine
documentation. please consult it anyway. let us know if you really get
stuck.

**not yet. i started my new job today? time**\
rare atm :)

**offended**\
<who> is offended!

**old tabs**\
some dudes out there like the old way of how tabs were realized in
fluxbox. well, from version 0.9.x the tabs are included in the titlebar
and there is (so far) no way to get them out of that prison.

**openoffice**\
try export OOO\_FORCE\_DESKTOP=gnome then start open office, if you like
this you can add export OOO\_FORCE\_DESKTOP=gnome to your startup file
for fluxbox or your shellrc

**overlay**\
For information on the overlay file please check out:
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Overlay>

**pager**\
Get fbpager from <http://old.fluxbox.org/fbpager/>

**party**\
Ohhhhhh...shut up <who>, i still can't see straight. i'll never drink
again.

**paste**\
don't flood the channel with pasted text! If it's less than four lines
it's ok. For more, use one of these pages: <http://fluxbox.pastebin.ca/>
<http://paste.pocoo.org/> <http://ompldr.org/paste>

**pastebin**\
<http://fluxbox.pastebin.ca/> ftw!!

**patches**\
patches for fluxbox are available on
<http://old.fluxbox.org/download/patches/> &
<http://www.darkshed.net/files/patches/fluxbox/>

**peaches**\
peaches all the way

**peanut**\
are you bored? <http://www.miniclip.com/flash/peanut.htm>

**pebkac**\
Problem Exists Between Keyboard And Chair

**people**\
ask me about 'developers'

**ping**\
gnop

**pixmaps in menu**\
to add pixmaps to menu-entries u need at least 0.9.10 and this for your
menu: [cmd] (labl) {command} <iconfile.xpm> or iconfile.png if you have
imlib2 support enabled.

**pmt**\
Percussive Maintenence Tool, great for fixing your computer. Most widely
used is the 5lb Sledge Hammer.

**png**\
ask me for 'imlib2'

**poll**\
see 'polls'

**polls**\
web forums are better places for polls than \#fluxbox, if you have a
question other than a poll please feel free to ask it

**pong**\
i already won that game.

**ppa**\
<https://launchpad.net/~fluxbox-maintainers/+archive/nightly/+packages>

**private**\
if you want to play with fbot, do it in pmsg. start with /msg fbot
fluxbox\\?

**q**\
1) Specify which fluxbox version you are using 2) if it's a compile
problem then specify gcc version and paste the last lines here

**quadrant**\
If you want to resize windows in any direction from any corner, set:
session.screen0.resizeMode: Quadrant in your \~/.fluxbox/init and then
reload config. Hold down alt + right mouse button and drag.

**questionmarks**\
uhh, yeah <who>. i totally second you. questionmarks suck big time!

**questions**\
of coz you can ask me questions, <who>. just ask. shortcut to my stored
keywords is to use ',keyword' but i prefer a normal question.

**random crash**\
If your fluxbox is crashing randomly after you click something in the
toolbar take a look at: <http://tinyurl.com/dcdv4>

**rathnor**\
fluxgen's right hand\<=or=\>fluxgen's left hand\<=or=\>han's conscience

**rbot**\
its me, finest bender-looka-like-robot :) <http://ruby-rbot.org/>

**rbworkspace**\
rbworkspace is a little rubyscript that could run as a daemon, could be
controled through a fifo-pipe and recognizes workspace changes through
xprop-usage. its able to do timeout-actions too but the primary goal was
to set different wallpapers on different workspaces. grab it here:
<http://darkshed.net/files/ruby/>

**recursion**\
ask me about 'recursion' to find out all about recursion.

**redhat**\
There's a redhat-9 rpm at <http://www.arny.org/softs/rpms/fluxbox/>

**reload**\
you can reload the config from the commandline (in linux) with kill
-USR1 \`pidof fluxbox\`

**remember**\
to make fluxbox remember some application settings use the "apps" file.
a lot of information is "hidden" in the changelog and in the manpage
under the "Application Settings" section

**restart**\
if you have to restart fluxbox either hit the \*restart\* entry in the
menu or do a 'pkill -HUP fluxbox'. in any case: fluxbox wont kill your
apps and wont log you off.

**revert**\
To revert to an older svn snapshot, do "svn checkout -r
<revision_number> <svn://>.... " . For other options, try svn checkout
help.

**rgb**\
use /etc/X11/rgb.txt to map hexvalues to colornames.

**road runner**\
\*meep\* \*meep\*

**roadmap**\
the development roadmap can be found at:
<http://old.fluxbox.org/roadmap.php>

**root**\
don't use the root account, use root-permissions.
[<http://www.xs4all.nl/~hanb/documents/change_root_shell.html>](http://replay.web.archive.org/20090201073552/http://www.xs4all.nl/~hanb/documents/change_root_shell.html)

**root-tail**\
tailing any logfile and puts the output on the \`root' window:
<http://oldhome.schmorp.de/marc/root-tail.html>

**rootCommand**\
the so called rootCommand is the way one can tell fluxbox what program
to call the change to rootwindow aka background, either from the
style-file or from the init-file.

**rootmenu**\
new in fluxbox-0.9.4: to bind the rootmenu to a key add 'modifier key
:rootmenu to \~/.fluxbox/keys. and no, it doesnt requiere a special
compile-flag for enabling this feature, its a builtin :). keynavigation
is possible either when the the rootmenu was openend by using
keybindings or after clicking on the title of the menu when it was
opened by using the mouse.

**rootmenu keys**\
down: select menu item, left/right: go in/out from submenus, escape:
close menu and return focus to windows, enter: run/execute/toggle menu
item

**round**\
to get rounded corners add something like "menu.roundCorners: TopLeft"
to your style. Can also do window.roundCorners, plus TopRight,
BottomLeft, BottomRight

**round corners**\
round corners is a new feature from 0.9.4-fluxbox: usage of the
shape-extension (x11) to blend out some parts of the corners -\> results
in round corners :) ask me about 'round corners syntax' and also about
'new themes'

**round corners syntax**\
in stylefiles: 1) toolbar.shaped: true | false 2) (menu or
window).roundcorners: topleft | topright | bottomleft | bottomright

**rounded**\
<http://old.fluxbox.org/docs/en/faq-dev.php#rounded>

**rox**\
a fast and highly configurable file manager for \*nix desktops. It
supports drag and drop file management. Go here to learn more,
<http://roscidus.com/desktop/ROX-Filer>

**rtfm**\
you just asked a question which is documented in our fine documentation.
please consult it. let us know if you really get stuck.

**ruby**\
the language of choice. and . hey, guess why i am called rbot :)

**rute**\
for a good intro to linux book please refrence
<http://rute.2038bug.com/index.html.gz>

**rxvt-unicode**\
rxvt with unicode in its name:
<http://software.schmorp.de/pkg/rxvt-unicode.html>

**salut**\
sup

**samba**\
go to <http://www.samba.org>

**scons**\
an alternative to the autotools, based on python. Utterly nifty. ak|ra
is making it happen.

**screens**\
multiple screens are multiple physical monitors. you can combine several
monitors into a single "screen" using xinerama. don't confuse x screens
with fluxbox's virtual workspaces.

**screensaver**\
if you want to start some screensavers see
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Screensaver>

**screenshot**\
To take a screenshot you have several options: "xwd", "import" (from
imagemagick), "the gimp", "scrot", "ksnapshot", "GkrellShoot".

**scrot**\
one way to take a screenshot is to install "scrot" from
<http://freshmeat.net/projects/scrot> and do something like scrot -s -q
75 'shot-%Y-%m-%d-%H%M%S-\$w-\$h.jpg' .

**sessions**\
ask me about 'startfluxbox'

**sf**\
<http://www.sourceforge.net/>

**shadows**\
with the new composite-feature of xorg-6.8 (read /topic!) its possible
to have shadows around the windows: xcompmgr -c .. and enable composite
in xorg.conf (read google for that)!

**shells**\
compare the shells yourself at
<http://www.faqs.org/faqs/unix-faq/shell/shell-differences/>

**shiny**\
"kiss my shiny metal ass" - bender

**shoot**\
being able to describe your problem is half the solution. try asking a
question that will result in the answer you are looking for and not in
yes or no.\<=or=\>peng peng you are dead.

**short fbgm**\
in \#fluxbox we use the short term fbgm when we talk about the
fluxbox-generate\_menu script.

**shut up**\
jaja, shut up yourself. i am here to help so if you want me to shut up i
guess you want to take over my job ...

**slit**\
the slit embeddes all dockable apps (eg wmxmms) in fluxbox. its also
possible to embedd gnome and kde-miniapps in the slit. The slit is
invisible if empty. or
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Faqs#What_is_the_slit>

**slitlist**\
just to make it clear: the slitlist (\~/.fluxbox/slitlist) is a file
which determines the order of the programms that are in the slit, its
not kind of launcherfile which automaticly lauchnes dockapps ...

**slitlogo**\
You want wmdrawer, get it from
<http://people.easter-eggs.org/~valos/wmdrawer/> and fluxbox logo from
<http://old.fluxbox.org/download/propaganda/>

**slowstartup**\
faq.php\#slowstartup

**snapping**\
set session.screen0.edgeSnapThreshold in your \~/.fluxbox/init file and
then reconfigure fluxbox

**software**\
A list of lightweight applications for those looking for something that
is not depending by any Desktop Environment
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Lightweight_Applications>

**something**\
oh, I dont know....you tell me.

**sorry**\
nevermind, <who>

**sound**\
\*beeeeeeeeeep\*

**sourcemage**\
source-based linux distro - <http://www.sourcemage.org>

**startfluxbox**\
startfluxbox is one way of starting fluxbox. It runs the
\~/.fluxbox/startup file. So, you can start programs that run when
fluxbox starts. For details, see
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_edit_the_startup_file>

**startup**\
startup is a file generated by startfluxbox; if your programs are not
starting, it's probably because you are running fluxbox instead of
startfluxbox; learn more about the startup file at
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Editing_the_startup_file>

**startx**\
To start fluxbox from the command line with "startx" check
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Howto_start_fluxbox_from_the_command_line>

**status**\
100% CPU usage, 1% free memory

**stfu**\
shake tha funk up!!

**sticky**\
In order to make an app apear on all workspaces, one should use the icon
on the window or the apps file to make it 'sticky'. More details can be
found in the man and in the wiki.

**strftime**\
strftime is the function Fluxbox uses to format the time. To know how it
works: 'man 3p strftime' or 'man 3 strftime' ; For a quick preview of
outputs, use 'date +<string>' e.g.: 'date +%k:%d'

**stupid**\
yep.

**styleitems**\
<http://old.fluxbox.org/download/themeitems.txt>

**styles**\
get fluxbox styles from <http://tenr.de> |
<http://dugnet.com/klown/wallpaper/thumbs.php?dir=_themes/_fluxbox> |
<http://mirror.usu.edu/mirrors/gentoo/distfiles/fluxbox-styles-fluxmod-20050128.tar.bz2>

**styles wiki**\
The styles wiki page is: <http://www.fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/styles>

**subversion**\
here: <http://subversion.tigris.org/>

**sucks**\
oh .. i only know \_1\_ sucks, and that's eNTi :P

**suse**\
SuSE rpms can be found at
[<http://www.buks-island.org/pub/linux/suse/>](http://replay.web.archive.org/20070810200037/http://www.buks-island.org/pub/linux/suse/)
also tenners famous style package is there too, thanks buk when you see
him

**svn**\
checkout: svn checkout <svn://svn.berlios.de/fluxbox/trunk> fluxbox &&
cd fluxbox && ./autogen.sh ... to update: cd fluxbox && svn update

**svndevel**\
echo -n "username: "; read username; export SVN\_SSH="ssh -l
\${username}"; svn co
svn+ssh://svn.berlios.de/svnroot/repos/fluxbox/trunk fluxbox && cd
fluxbox && ./autogen.sh

**svnhtml**\
<http://svn.berlios.de/viewcvs/fluxbox/>

**switch**\
to change your gtk theme/fonts, you can edit your \~/.gtkrc-2.0 file or
get a theme switcher to do it for you; fbot recommends gtk-chtheme,
which you can find in your distro's package manager or get from
<http://plasmasturm.org/programs/gtk-chtheme/>

**switchdesk**\
switchdesk is a tool for choosing default window managers/desktop
environments. If you can't find fluxbox as a choice, and you're using
Fedora, read <http://www.arny.org/index.php?center=4.php#switchdesk>

**switching between tabs**\
use left mousebutton to click on the tab you want or bind keys to
:prevtab / :nexttab to switch between the frames.

**systemtray**\
to enable the systemtray-tool add a "SystemTray" to your
session.screen0.toolbar.tools in \~/.fluxbox/init . it will take all the
applets that requests a systemtray. version 0.9.x is needed.

**t-shirt**\
Want a nice gift ? Go there:
<http://www.spreadshirt.com/shop.php?sid=10568>

**tablaunch**\
tablaunch is a simple, cool-looking x application launchbar that
displays user-specified applications as tabs in a border of the screen
and becomes hidden after a delay. URL: <http://tablaunch.sf.net>

**tabs**\
tabs allow you to group some windows together; use ctrl-middle\_click on
a window's tab (or titlebar) and drag it to another window; tabs can be
shown outside the window or embedded in the titlebar, which you can
configure in the menu. See
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Tabs>

**tangent**\
a girl

**tell beli if ak|ra**\
done.

**temp mod1**\
If you want to temp. disable Mod1 (so that it doesn't drag windows for
instance) add two key bindings like these: <key1> :macroCmd
{SetResourceValue session.useMod1 false} { restart} and <key2> :macroCmd
{SetResourceValue session.useMod1 true} { restart}

**tenner**\
a magnet for people that need support. he takes american express, visa
and paypal.

**term**\
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Faqs#Which_terminal_should_I_run_in_fluxbox>

**terminus**\
you can download terminus-font from
<http://terminus-font.sourceforge.net/> ; mandrake, openbsd, freebsd and
debian have packages.

**test**\
<who> plaing with me again \\?

**thanks**\
Glad i could help <who> :)

**thanks i know that! the thing**\
that it was working fine and now it's not doing it

**theme**\
ask for styles.

**theme-editor**\
'bbconf' and 'whitebox' are (among other things) able to create themes.
of coz they dont know things such roundedcorners and so on, but its a
nice start for creating new themes anyway.

**themeitems**\
<http://old.fluxbox.org/download/themeitems.txt>

**themes**\
ask me for 'styles'

**thingy**\
fluxgen's favourite word and ultimate .. thingy .. for everthingy, aeh
.. thing. :)

**This nickname**\
owned by someone else

**thx**\
hey .. no worries dude ;)

**TIAS**\
Try It And See never hurt anyone. Odds are slim your computer will blow
up or anything from testing it on your own.

**time**\
You can set the format for the clock as explained in man strftime

**timr**\
a troll

**tinyurl**\
if you are going to paste loooong urls, do us all a favour and use
tinyurl.com, thanks.

**toolbar transparency**\
in the toolbar menu, or, for 0.9.10 and earlier it's toolbar.alpha:
0-255 in your style

**top**\
read the /topic. you should have when you came in :p

**torsmo**\
a fine, light, cute and simple systemmonitor. Download from
<http://torsmo.sourceforge.net>

**tracker**\
<http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=35398>

**trans**\
see the wiki <http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/Background>

**trans aterm**\
first read the man page, then check some ,dotfiles for .Xdefaults maybe

**transparency**\
if you're looking for real transparencies, then you need a compositing
manager; see <http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Compositing>

**transparent menus**\
to get your menus transparent, use a) fb 0.9.x, b) a wallpapersetter,
that does the job right (find out more with fbsetbg -i) and 3) use the
mouse, open rootmenu and click the alpha-value in the
fluxbox-configure-submenu

**transparent titlebar**\
grab latests cvs-snapshot and use window.alpha: value (0-255) in your
stylefile to get transparent titlebars in fluxbox too.

**tweak**\
if you have a card that can do it you can try adding \`\` option
"renderaccel" "1" '' to the device section of your xorg.conf. you may
get odd crashes though! also the slit may have odd colors.

**ubuntu**\
read how to safely update your ubuntu package
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Update_fluxbox#Using_Ubuntu_and_Debian>

**urxvt**\
urxvt is an rxvt clone with XFT and Unicode support
<http://software.schmorp.de/pkg/rxvt-unicode.html>

**usage**\
if you have a question about setting the background ask me about
'background' and if you have a question about problems with mplayer type
"fbot, mplayer?".

**utf**\
if you want to try utf8 put this command in your .xinitrc or
.fluxbox/startup: export LC\_ALL=nl\_NL.UTF-8

**utf-8**\
UTF-8 (8-bit Unicode Transformation Format) is a lossless,
variable-length character encoding for Unicode created by Rob Pike and
Ken Thompson.

**utsl**\
utsl: "Use the source, Luke". Generally suggesting that you look at, or
modify the code to achieve what you desire.

**vanten**\
unknown.

**version**\
Please state the version-number when you have a question/problem. The
current and stable versions differ very much from each other. Use
\`\`fluxbox -version'' if you don't know which version you are using.

**virtual keyboard**\
sometimes its handy to have a virtual keyboard: xvkbd
(http://homepage3.nifty.com/tsato/xvkbd/) and xkeycaps
(http://www.jwz.org/xkeycaps/) are pretty nifty.

**wallpaper**\
ask me for 'wallpapers'

**wallpapers**\
wallpapers can be found on: <http://digitalblasphemy.com>,
<http://deviantart.com>, <http://kde-look.org>,
<http://animewallpapers.com>, <http://hebus.com>,
<http://shadowness.com>, <http://gameswallpapers.com>,
<http://www.vladstudio.com/home>, <http://semafore.com>,
<http://caedes.net>, <http://www.pixelgirlpresents.com>

**wallpapers on each workspace**\
fluxbox isnt able to display different wallpapers on each workspace
itself, it isnt either able to render any backgroundimage by itself. so
these external apps will help you: fluxspace, backgroundbuddy and
rbworkspace.

**weird**\
the name says it all.

**what do you use**\
i mostly use google.

**what is svn**\
svn aka subversion is a version control system like cvs .. but .. better
:) check out <http://subversion.tigris.org>.

**what is the matrix**\
come on dude, dont be silly.

**what is the slit**\
the slit embeddes all dockable apps (eg wmxmms) in fluxbox. its also
possible to embedd gnome and kde-miniapps in the slit.

**whats your favourite color**\
i like blue !

**where to file a bug**\
Coming to \#fluxbox and informing a developer is one way, another, and
possibly the best way is to go to
<http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=35398&atid=413960> so that
there is a public record of the bug.

**whitebox**\
a configuration tool for the blackbox window manager, but it also works
with fluxbox, openbox and others. check out
<http://whitebox.sourceforge.net/index.html>

**whitespaces**\
whitespaces are really evil in the configfiles, make sure that you
remove them!

**who are you**\
its me, the fine small infobot from the fluxbox-channel. i am written in
ruby and ak|ra is my daddy :)

**who is Rathnor**\
fluxbox's mother.

**who is ak|ra**\
hes my daddy and watches over me.

**who is fluxgen**\
fluxbox's father.

**who is Rathnor**\
fluxbox's mother.

**who was it**\
blame ak|ra

**who's your daddy**\
I am my own daddy, damnit

**wiki account**\
If you would like a wiki account please ask errr, tenner, bobbens,
Meltir, Zan, or mit3z and one of them will make you one.

**window**\
That's what I use fluxbox for. :D

**window-style alt-tabbing**\
the default in the latest fluxbox-release, 0.9.\*.

**windowmanager**\
A window manager is the software that controls the placement and
appearance of application windows under the X Window System, a graphical
user interface on Unix systems that enables a user to interact with a
number of application programs simultaneously.

**windows**\
That's what I use fluxbox for. :D

**winkey**\
the windows key is also known as \*mod4\* or Super\_L. read \*mod4\* to
get it working

**wmdrawer**\
such a nice dockapp. its able to launch a wide range of apps from the
slit and even better, its the app you see with the fluxlogo in the slit.
grab it from <http://people.easter-eggs.org/~valos/wmdrawer/>

**work**\
that is how you get money

**workspaces**\
virtual desktops, handled from fluxbox. dont mix them up with real
"screens" or even "servers"!!

**wtf**\
werk tha funk

**xdefaults**\
a configuration file that your terminal emulator (and many other X
applications) will use for settings, see
<http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php?title=Xdefaults_setup>

**xdm**\
Please check the wiki at <http://fluxbox-wiki.org/index.php/XDM> and
make sure you have xdm set up correctly

**xev**\
you can use xev to find out the names of keys -- just run the program
from a terminal, press the key, and you will see a lot of output,
including something like "keycode 65 (keysym 0x20, space)". \`space' is
the name of the key

**xft**\
got xft problems? perhaps try reading:
[<http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~simonb/fluxbox/fonts_log.txt>](http://replay.web.archive.org/20041118225058/http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~simonb/fluxbox/fonts_log.txt)

**xgl**\
read this <http://old-en.opensuse.org/Xgl>

**xinerama**\
to get dual screen support, build fluxbox with --enable-xinerama
('USE="xinerama" emerge fluxbox' in gentoo) and ensure that x has
xinerama enabled. To check if your package has this support run: fluxbox
-i and make sure you dont have -XINERAMA

**xinitrc**\
read the docs, <http://old.fluxbox.org/docbook/en/html/a802.html>

**xkeycaps**\
a nice virtual keyboard can be found at <http://www.jwz.org/xkeycaps/>

**xlib**\
Xlib

**xlsfonts**\
xlsfonts is a tool that shows you a list of all available fonts on your
system

**xmb**\
the X Multibyte Extension, on occasions it can impact the speed of
fluxbox's startup

**xmms**\
one way to play music in a nice and friendly way is xmms, available at
<http://www.xmms.org>. see also xmms2, the next generation of xmms
<http://xmms2.org/wiki/Main_Page>

**xmodmap**\
with xmodmap you will be able to redefine the modifiers and a lot more,
read 'man xmodmap'

**xnee**\
a nice tool to record and replay xevents, available under
<http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/xnee>

**xorg**\
See the \#xorg channel. Be sure to read <http://wiki.x.org/wiki/XorgIRC>
first.

**xorg and fonts**\
having font probs with xorg? read
<https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Font_Configuration>

**xorg and transparency**\
take a look at <http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/X.Org/Transparency> to
find out how and what to do.

**xplanet**\
having trouble with trans terminals when using xplanet? try setting the
-transparency switch

**xrandr**\
the commandline tool used to change your current X resolution. If you
\_must\_ have a gui - try krandrtray. Lookup
<http://linuxreviews.org/quicktips/> for details.

**xrootconsole**\
a way to display logfiles etc into the background as seen in some of
screenshots use xrootconsole, available at
<http://sourceforge.net/projects/xrootconsole/>

**xsession**\
.xsession for people who use xdm, kdm or gdm. \~/.xinitrc is for people
who use startx

**xv**\
bleh, better use esetroot

**xwit**\
is a nice tool to call some native xlib-calls on windows, available here
(among other nice app): <http://www.x.org/contrib/utilities/>

**yolkaplexus**\
a dork

**zan**\
a school bus

[Category:English howtos](Category:English howtos "wikilink")
[Category:Misc howtos](Category:Misc howtos "wikilink")
